all of the daily safety checks
illustrated in this video are noted in
your owner's manual and on the safety
information sticker located on your door
if you do not have either of these be
sure to ask your service technician for
a supply take a good overall look at the
door and the immediate surrounding area
check the door area for any tripping or
slipping hazards check that the
threshold is complete and secure with
all required screws
check to see that all guide rails are
firmly anchored pick up any trash in the
area check all door panels for any
cracked or broken glass with the door
open
grasp the lock style of the door and
attempt to move it vertically and
horizontally
there should be no looseness in the door
pivots or in connections between the
door and operator observe traffic
routing to the door plan traffic routing
so pedestrians will approach the door
straight on and not from an angle there
should be no bulletin boards literature
racks merchandise displays or other
attractions in the door area that could
cause pedestrians difficulty in using
the doorway make sure that all of the
appropriate safety decals are on the
doors these decals inform the user of
intended traffic flow and appropriate
cautions it is very important to check
the door activating devices if your door
is equipped with electronic sensors
which exist in many styles and shapes
check their operation by performing the
following steps
make sure you perform this check for
each door leaf walk toward the door at a
normal pace
approach the door from several angles
the door should start to open when you
are about four to five feet from the
door face and stop without impact stand
motionless in the door opening for at
least four seconds the door should not
close walk past the threshold into the
swing area and stop for ten seconds the
door should remain open move clear of
the swing path area the door should
remain open for at least one and a half
seconds and should close slowly and
smoothly now with the door in the closed
position carefully move toward the swing
side of the door first and then have
another person move slowly toward the
approach side of the door as long as you
are in the swing path of the door it
either will not open or will open at a
creep speed if the door is used for
two-way traffic walk toward the door
from the swing side the door should open
before you reach the swing path of the
door if your door is equipped with floor
mat actuators the test will be performed
in this manner if you have multiple mats
be sure to check all of them step on the
opening mat in several places
the door should open smoothly to the
full open position and stop without
impact now step through the opening onto
the safety mat the door should remain
open
check the mat in several places to be
sure there are no inactive areas now
step off of the safety mat surface the
door should remain open for a minimum of
one and a half seconds before it starts
to close next carefully stand on the
safety mat and then have someone else
step onto the activate mat the door
should not open repeat the safety mat
test in several places
check the mat molding and threshold it
should be complete and secure with all
required screws check to see that all
guide rails are firmly anchored should
the door fail to operate as described in
the preceding daily safety checks or at
any other time for any reason do not
attempt to repair or adjust the door
yourself turn the door off secure in a
safe manner and call an authorized
automatic door service company
you